django-jsonform 2.13.0 release notes
====================================


Oct 09, 2022
------------

This release brings some minor but important changes.

Like the previous version, it also supports ``Django >= 2.0`` and ``Python >= 3.4``.


Breaking changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Widget template**

  This concerns you **if you've overridden the widget's template** in your projects.

  There have been a lot of changes to the template. Please `take a look at the updated template <https://github.com/bhch/django-jsonform/blob/eaf03c7e8c2fd039eb772b2a244b81d7bc142d91/django_jsonform/templates/django_jsonform/editor.html>`_.

  The context variables sent by the widget have also been renamed. `Take a look at
  the updated context variables <https://github.com/bhch/django-jsonform/blob/eaf03c7e8c2fd039eb772b2a244b81d7bc142d91/django_jsonform/widgets.py#L43-L68>`_.
  

- **JSONFormWidget class**

  This concerns you **if you've subclassed the** ``JSONFormWidget`` **class** in your projects.

  Specifically, the context variables returned by the ``render`` method of widget have
  been changed/renamed. `Take a look at the updated render method <https://github.com/bhch/django-jsonform/blob/eaf03c7e8c2fd039eb772b2a244b81d7bc142d91/django_jsonform/widgets.py#L43-L68>`_.


New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Support for django-nested-admin**

  Support for `django-nested-admin <https://github.com/theatlantic/django-nested-admin>`_ is added. Code contributed by `Trent Holliday <https://github.com/trumpet2012>`_.


Minor Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Dropped jQuery dependency**

  Earlier releases relied upon jQuery to generate the widget for Django's Inline formsets.
  This release get rids of the jQuery calls.

- **File Clear button**

  File input's *Clear* button will not send a ``DELETE`` request now. This is done
  to state in-tune with Django's *Clear* button which only empties the file input,
  and doesn't delete it. A dedicated Delete button may be added in future.


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- Some bugfixes in widget's JavaScript library.


react-json-form (JavaScript)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`react-json-form <https://github.com/bhch/react-json-form>`_ has been updated
to version 2.2.0.


Thank you
~~~~~~~~~

I want to thank all the people who contributed code, bug reports, feature requests
and improvement suggestions.
