django-jsonform 2.11.0 release notes
====================================


Aug 16, 2022
------------

This release brings plenty of bugfixes, some exciting new features and some
deprecations.

Like the previous version, it also supports ``Django >= 2.0`` and ``Python >= 3.4``.


What's new
~~~~~~~~~~


Deprecation notice
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- ``JSONFORM_UPLOAD_HANDLER``

    The ``JSONFORM_UPLOAD_HANDLER`` setting has been deprecated and will be removed
    in future.
    Please read about the new way to upload files in the :ref:`Uploading files <File url>`
    document.


New features
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Brand new :doc:`JavaScript API </guide/javascript>` for controlling the
  widget in the browser.
- New :ref:`file upload modal dialog <File url>` which provides the ability
  to browse files form the server while uploading.
- Support for ``enum`` keyword (alias for ``choices``).
- Support for ``placeholder`` keyword.
- Support for ``date-time`` keyword (alias for ``datetime``).
- Support for ``handler`` keyword for string input. This can be used for
  specifying the url for the file upload handler on a per input field basis.
- :class:`~django_jsonform.models.fields.JSONField` now accepts a new parameter
  called ``file_handler`` which can be used for specifying the url of the file
  handler on a per widget basis.
- Now django-jsonform settings will be namespaced under :setting:`DJANGO_JSONFORM`
  setting.


Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- :issue:`45`: Default value for number and boolean types was ignored if the
  default value was 0 or False.
- :issue:`46`: Fixed a bug due to which the multiselect widget didn't work on
  top-level arrays.
- :issue:`47`: Fixed a bug in CSS when two widget fields were displayed in a
  single fieldset row.
- :issue:`48`: Array's ``minItems`` keyword was ignored if default value for
  array was provided or if the form field had initial data.
- Fixed a bug to make select input respect falsy options. Earlier, the select input
  would not update the selected value if a falsy option was selected.
- Minor improvements and fixes in widget's CSS.


react-json-form (JavaScript)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`react-json-form <https://github.com/bhch/react-json-form>`_ has been updated
to version 2.0.0.

----

Finally, huge thanks to...
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- All my sponsors for their support. I really appreciate it.
- All the people for contributing bug reports and improvement suggestions.