django-jsonform 2.12.0 release notes
====================================


Sep 17, 2022
------------

This release brings some exciting new features and a few bugfixes.

Like the previous version, it also supports ``Django >= 2.0`` and ``Python >= 3.4``.


New features
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- **Data validation**

  Support for :doc:`data validation </guide/validation>`.

- **Validation keywords**

  Support for validation keywords — ``required``, ``minLength``, ``maxLength``,
  ``minimum``, ``maximum``, ``exclusiveMinimum``, ``exclusiveMaximum``,
  ``uniqueItems``.

- **Autocomplete widget**

  New :doc:`autocomplete widget </guide/autocomplete>` which can load choices via
  AJAX requests.

- **File deletion**

  A delete button has been added in Media Library thumbnails which will send a
  ``DELETE`` request to file handler endpoint. In addition to that, ``DELETE``
  requests will automatically be sent to the server when *Clear* button is clicked
  or when exiting page without form submission.

- **Rename choices label keyword to title**

  For consistency with JSON schema, choice ``label`` keyword has been renamed to
  ``title``. However, the ``label`` keyword will still continue to work.

- **Range input**

  Support for range input widget. Earlier range input was added using the ``format``
  keyword, but as a range input also returns a number value (no need for a specialised format).
  Hence, it didn't make sense to use range as a format. So, now range inputs can
  be created using the ``widget`` keyword.

- **Time widget improvements**

  Time widget's input spinner is now circular i.e. after reaching maximum or minimum
  value, it will start over (e.g. after 12 for hours, it will go to 0 if the hour is
  incremented and will go from 0 to 12 if decremented).


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

- :issue:`58`: Overriding the widget in custom form's ``Meta`` class was not
  respected.
- :issue:`61`: Widget didn't accept ``attrs`` argument.
- Minor improvements and fixes in widget's CSS.


react-json-form (JavaScript)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`react-json-form <https://github.com/bhch/react-json-form>`_ has been updated
to version 2.1.0.


Thank you
~~~~~~~~~

I want to thank all the people who contributed bug reports, feature requests
and improvement suggestions.
