django-jsonform 2.8.0 release notes
===================================


Feb 14, 2022
------------

This version introduces no breaking changes and is fully compatible with the
previous releases (2.7.x).

Like the previous version, it also supports ``Django >= 2.0`` and ``Python >= 3.4``.


What's new
~~~~~~~~~~


New features
^^^^^^^^^^^^

- **Datetime input**

  Support for datetime input has been added for ``string`` type fields using
  ``format: 'datetime'`` key.
  Read about its usage here: :ref:`Datetime field`.

- **Multiple choice selection**

  Support for multiple choice selection. Learn more in usage docs: :ref:`Multiple selections`. 

- **Default value for array**

  Support for ``default`` initial value for an array. Earlier, only array items
  could have a default value. The problem with that is when a new item was added,
  the same default value was also added again.

  With this feature, it is now possible to set multiple default values on an array.

- **Clearable file inputs**

  Now file upload inputs can be cleared, i.e. their value can be unset.
  Earlier, it wasn't possible to empty a file input once a value was attached.

- **Callable schema may receive the model instance**

  Now the callable schema function may optionally receive the current model instance as an argument.


Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^

- :issue:`25`: Fixed a bug where editing a key in an extendable dict (object) made the key disappear.
- :issue:`27`: Fixed a bug to make the editor work in admin inlines.


Minor improvements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- **Autogrowing textarea**

  Textarea's height will now grow automatically as the user types in. This saves
  the user from having to manually resize the textarea.

- **Animated list items**

  List items will have a nice animation when moved up/down or removed. This will
  help provide some feedback to the user. Earlier it wasn't obvious when list items
  were moved.


react-json-form (JavaScript)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`react-json-form <https://github.com/bhch/react-json-form>`_ has been updated
to version 1.9.0.
